# CS230-journal
Design document for my CS230 class

CS 230
2/17/2021
Professor Buksbaum 

For this project I was asked to create a software design document for a client. That client was The Gaming Room. This company had a game running on the android platform called Win, Lose or Draw which consisted the application rendering images whilst a team consisting of players would attempt to guess what this image was. The client only wanted one instance of the game to exist and within this game class there would be different teams consisting of players. The client already had a fairly successful application on the android platform but were now looking to expand their game to other operating platforms. They wanted me to design a web based application that would be able to run on other devices/operating systems. 

I believe i did well in recommending a proper operating platform for the client. I weighed in on the pros and cons of different operating systems as well as listing why I chose to go with my specific choice. I was asked to explain different aspects of the system such as memory management, storage, security etc. I made sure to add in as much detail as possible. For instance when it came to security I touched on the principle of least privilege as well as protecting the network itself by using a network based firewall.
The design document helps by listing exactly what the client wants and what design constraints we will run into. It organizes the issue at hand and this leads to more efficiency when it comes time to develop code.

I made a mistake during the beginning of this course by assuming the client wanted a desktop based application. For instance if they client had a mac then we would have to write code in swift. This was not what the client was looking for. Professor Buksbaum pointed this out to me. So if there was one thing I would fix it would be this error I made during the start of the course/project 1.

I knew that the client only wanted one instance of the game to exist so because of this we employed the singleton pattern to use. This pattern ensures that one and only one instance of some class exists and we attempted to create another the original would be returned. The client also wanted to make sure that no two players on the same team had the same name so i had to iterate over an array list to check for this. One of the main areas of focus was protecting the end user. That’s why we installed a network based firewall to avoid any network based attacks. It is vital to have the end user in mind when creating or developing software as they will be using your services. The end goal is to provide the end user a good time as well as having them come back to use the service. If no thought or consideration is put on the end users experiences than the product might not survive as it is the end users that keep it alive by their usage.

When it came to designing the software i had the software design document by my side as this kept everything organized. It was vital to read over the design constrains and figure out a way to make everything run smoothly. For instance the client wanted only one instance of the game class to exist and to make this happen the singleton design pattern was used. In the future I will do a better job of reading over what exactly it is the client wants and will not rush over this step. Next based off this feedback from the client I will formulate the design constraints that come with the requests. Getting these two aspects correct is essential as everything builds off of them.
